# CourseToolVector

What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course? The problem that the projects for this course set out to resolve are how to organize data for college courses based on user input. The program should take the raw course data and print a sorted list. The user can also search for specific courses and print out the data on that course alone.

How did you approach the problem? I approached the problem by first analyzing the potential solutions by using different data structures. Once the most efficient data structure was determine, then I attempted to implement an algorithm for sorting/printing the course data contained in the data structure.

How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project? While working on Project Two, I ran into too many issues and errors with a binary search tree. It was becoming increasingly difficult to debug the code and get the algorithm to traverse the data. I felt like I understood vectors better and already had a good idea for how to implement a vector for the project. Ultimately, I had to abandon my attempt at implementing a binary search tree and had to rework the project as a vector so that the code would run properly. If the data set was larger, then there would probably be efficiency issues but since the text file had less than 50 data points, then using a vector to sort/print was just as efficient for this project.

How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs? I have learned a lot this term simply through trial and error. I've gotten a lot better implementing menus with function calls and learning about the complexities of swapping and comparing data points using C++. Moreover, I've learn how to successfully implement an algorithm using loops that I'm already familiar with.

How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? I've learned that many algorithms work the same in different data strcutures. Vectors, linked lists, hash tables, and trees can all be used to manipulate the same data but in different way, some more efficient than others. So, I've learned the importance of consistency in creating class objects and defining variables to make for more portable/adatpable programs. I've also learned a lot about reading from CSV and text files and implementing data structures to hold the data from those files. Most of the assignments we completed could easily be read and adapted with completely different data while still maintaining the same data structure/algorithm. In this manner, you could adjust any of the data structures/algorithms used to analyze and output different sets of data.
